South Africa has filed a case against
Israel at the international court of
justice saying the actions of the
Israeli Armed Forces against
Palestinians in Gaza have a quote
genocidal character it's also calling on
the court to order Israel to stop its
attacks the international court of
justice in the ha is the United Nations
highest court its decisions are binding
but it has little means to enforce them
Israel has rejected the filing citing
that it lacked both a factual and legal
basis Israel is widening its air and
ground offensive against Hamas which is
classified as a terror organization by
many countries now the Israeli military
is claiming to have destroyed a newly
discovered Hamas
Hideout Israeli troops attacking a
southern Gaza base from where Hamas
militants presumably set out to invade
Israel on October 7th this footage from
Israel's military shows an ongoing
operation to gain control of the site
now Israel is expanding its operations
in the area around the southern city of
cunes where it believes Hamas leaders
are hiding it says it has destroyed
several Hamas tunnels all over the Gaza
Strip This latest one in the
north we found a very significant Hamas
tunnel Network that's used by senior
officials it's very deep deeper than the
previous ones this tunnel is different
it has an elevator that goes down a very
long tunnel
shaft the fighting has led to one of the
worst humanitarian crisis in the Gaza
Strip this family is saying goodbye to
their loved
ones the bodies of those killed by an
Israeli air strike on the deer albala
refugee camp in central Gaza are laid
outside a
hospital this mother has lost both of
her
twins we were sleeping in the room with
two of my
children my twins were in another
room the house was bombed and the rebel
fell on the twins on their
birthday parts of dear alala were
flattened children search for Bel
belongings in the place that many once
called home according to estimates by
the United Nations the latest strikes
have prompted another 100,000 people to
abandon their houses leaving everything
behind so far 85% of gaza's population
has been displaced by the
conflict let's bring in DW correspondent
T clma in Jerusalem Tanya Israel's
military is extending its offensive
further south uh do we know are they
getting any closer to their goal of
tracking down Hamas
leaders well the Israeli Army says uh
almost also in their daily updates that
they are systematically destroying uh um
uh Hamas INF structure and that of other
militant groups as well uh command
centers as they put it uh they released
a footage uh last night of what they
described as a hideout of Hamas leader
Yahya sinir near or in a city uh a
network of underground tunnels as a
hideout apartment they described with
several rooms but they haven't been uh
getting any closer to find uh the uh
Hamas leader which is one of the goals
they have said uh they want to remove uh
Hamas from power and this has
devastating consequences of course for
the civilian population now the ground
operation and offensive is concentrating
further south also of course their air
strike across the Gaza Strip but now
also on gaza's second largest city Khan
Unis also in the center the AL balarat
refugee camp where thousands hundred of
thousands of Palestinian civilians have
been uh told to go and uh seek a shelter
people have been displaced now multiple
times according to the United Nations
over 80% that's an estimate of the
population has been uh displaced um uh
in this in this campaign so
far da South Africa has filed a case
against Israel at the international
court of justice Israel has rejected the
move but how long can Israel ignore the
growing International pressure over its
offensive and the humanitarian crisis in
Gaza well so far it doesn't seem that uh
this International pressure has had um
any major impact on uh Israel's decision
um you know we've heard multiple times
from prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu
also from defense minister yuf Galan
that they continue uh uh this uh uh War
uh on Hamas on Gaza um to remove Hamas
from power to um destroy their
infrastructure uh also now that South
Africa has launched its case and at the
international court of justice uh
Israel's foreign spokesperson by
Israel's foreign minister Ministry uh
basically responded to the allegations a
quote with disgust uh to the blood liel
as he puts it so uh you know we are
seeing basically that the uh ground
offensive has been uh in the past weeks
uh expanded now further uh South putting
more pressure also on the southern parts
of Gaza we've heard from the US Israel's
closest Ally to uh you know that it
should go into a more in less intensive
phase but so far uh this had didn't have
have any impact here on the ground Tanya
CLA in Jerusalem thank
you what for more we can talk to Shan
Casey he's the World Health
organization's emergency medical team
coordinator joining us from Rafa in
southern Gaza Shan good to see you uh
difficult scenario but what have your
teams been able to achieve after these
latest Israeli
strikes thanks for having me yeah what
we're seeing is a significant increase
in hostilities in the middle area and in
the south in funus as your report just
highlighted um and that's causing a
couple of things to happen one is that
the hospitals in the middle area and in
this South are seeing a significant
increase in trauma presentations um and
and other partners have have tried to
resupply those hospitals and support
some of those hospitals with surge
Personnel we've had several emergency
Medicals arrive just in the past few
days to to work in in several of the
hospitals that are receiving these
casualties but at the same time we're
seeing a huge number of displaced
persons moving south so every day for
the last few days we've seen more and
more people truckloads bus loads of
people uh with mattresses and all their
belongings moving south towards
Rafa yeah much of gaza's North has been
destroyed and and fighting is now
focusing on the central and southern
Parts as you allude to there are about
100,000 newly displaced people uh how
are you dealing with the increasing
numbers now of refugees ding in
Rafa well actually almost everybody in
in Gaza is displaced it's now around 90%
of the population uh that has been
displaced and and many of them not for
the first time so they've been displaced
from the north to the middle area from
the middle area to the South uh it's
causing a huge amount of pressure here
in Rafa where I am there are internally
displaced persons camps spontaneous uh
camps that have been set up uh on
sidewalks on Open Fields in almost any
open space and it presents a huge number
of challenges actually there it's it's
hard to even move around Rafa because
the streets are so full of people but it
creates a huge risk for the spread of
infectious disease we don't have enough
food Water Sanitation facilities for all
of these people and many of them are
sleeping in very poor conditions under
under shelters that they set up you know
hours before nightfall even even I saw
just two days ago people setting up a
tent as the sun was setting and they had
just fled hours before so very difficult
conditions for the people here and and
creating many challenges for us as the
humanitarian Community to to continue to
respond Sean we've talked often about
the situation getting progressively
worse for civilians in Gaza you've just
laid that out for us how much worse can
it get from this
point well we are continuously um
surprised and not in a good way about
the how it's it's deteriorating here um
about the number of casualties that we
continue to see the pressure on
hospitals the number of hospitals that
have lost functionality the food
insecurity with you know almost every
family uh in Gaza now reducing their
their food intake skipping meals um and
now dis displacement at an enormous
scale uh with more and more people being
pushed into a very small area here in
the South that creates very poor living
conditions so it continues to to shock
us the conditions that people are in are
shocking um it's uh it's pushing people
to really lose their dignity um to lose
their safety to lose their sense of
security um and Beyond the physical
concerns it's causing a huge amount of
emotional distress on the people of Gaza
and children who are just suffering
enormously and you see them just
standing in the street not knowing what
to do so it's it's a it's a horrible
situation and it seems to be getting
worse by the day Sean Casey from the
World Health Organization thank you so
much for your
time